DOCS-453 - Metrics Anomaly option (#4577)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/metrics/metrics-anomalies-alerts.md

- **Seasonality detection**. Identify recurring patterns, minimizing false positives from periodic spikes.
- **Auto-tuning**. Automatically adjust detection parameters to balance noise and relevance.
- **Extensible detection framework**. Customizable rules, such as "Cluster anomalies," allow for advanced incident detection based on multiple data points exceeding thresholds within a defined time window.

### Playbook integration

Automate responses to anomalies, including diagnostics, team notifications, and recovery tasks like restarting services or scaling infrastructure by linking playbooks to metrics-based monitors.

## Prerequisites

To fully leverage AI-driven alerts for metrics monitors, you'll need:

- **Automation Service**. Required for linking playbooks to metrics-based monitors.
- **Metrics data**. Metrics data must be sent to Sumo Logic for anomaly detection.
- **Metrics aggregation**. Queries that return multiple time series should be aggregated (e.g., using `sum` or `avg` operators) before applying anomaly detection.

## Create a metrics anomaly monitor

> 1. Go to **Alerts** > **Monitors**, then click **Add** > **New Monitor**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. [**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Manage Data > Monitoring > Monitors**. <br/>[**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui). In the main Sumo Logic menu, select **Alerts > Monitors**. You can also click the **Go To...** menu at the top of the screen and select **Monitors**.
```
